What is a SmartWatch?

A smartwatch, or smart watch, is a fairly new piece of technology.  It’s a computerized wristwatch which has been compared to personal digital assistant (PDA) devices of the past.  It has a number of different functions with each model offering something new and unexpected to the consumer.

How a SmartWatch Works with a Smart Phone?

Similar to the fitness trackers of today, a smartwatch works simultaneously with the smart phone through Bluetooth technology.  Certain features of the phone can be accessed through the watch making it easier to call, text, and even listen to music.  A smartwatch cannot be used with a smart phone.  It will tell time but it does not offer the same options that it would if connected to a mobile device


What are the Benefits of Using a SmartWatch?

As new smartwatch models emerge on the marketplace, smart phone owners are given more and more options to choose from.  Here are some of the many advantages of having a computer on your wrist:

Convenience.  Let’s face it.  People like to be well-informed.  They want to feel connected.  That’s what makes the smartwatch so appealing.  Imagine being able to do most of the things you do on a smart phone without having to pull out your phone to do them.  Smartwatches allow you to make and receive calls and receive updates.  You can receive text messages, alerts, and updates without being extremely obvious about it.

Affordability.  Unlike some new technologies, smartwatches are rather affordable.  They complement smart phones so more and more cell phone companies are selling and promoting them.  Even the most highly anticipated models are extremely affordable.  As more and more companies jump onto the smartwatch bandwagon, functionality will improve and prices will drop significantly.
    
Functionality.  Some smartwatch models have built-in flash drives.  Others have voice and gesture control, Cloud data, and built-in activity trackers.  Many smartwatches allow you to text and tweet from your wrist.  Imagine being on the treadmill at the gym.  You no longer have to haphazardly pull your phone out to see who is calling or texting you.  One look at your smartwatch can tell you whether you need to answer the phone or wait until you’re done working out.
    
Discretion. Everyone wants to be connected but let’s face it, there are some places where phones are inappropriate.  Despite wanting to be available to your family or clients, it just isn’t possible in some places.  A smartwatch makes it easier to check messages on the fly.
    
Custom Firmware.  App developers have free reign when it comes to designing for the smartwatch.  Companies encourage innovation by providing guides detailed how to “hack” the watches software.  Much like smart phones, the app market for smartwatches could become larger than life.

